Create draft proposal for running dotnet test using Microsoft.Testing.Platform (#4324)
microsoft/testfx: docs/RFCs/011-Sdk-Testing-Platform.md

# RFC 011 - Run dotnet test with Microsoft.Testing.Platform

- [x] Approved in principle
- [x] Under discussion
- [ ] Implementation
- [ ] Shipped

## Current State

Currently, when we run `dotnet test` in CLI, we use vstest as a test runner/driver to run tests in test projects.

## Motivation

> With `dotnet test`, users should be able to use [Microsoft Testing Platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-platform-intro?tabs=dotnetcli#microsofttestingplatform-pillars) to run their tests for the sake of improving their experience. They should have the option to opt-in/out this new experience.

Reviewer: Don't force locale on links when possible:

```suggestion
With `dotnet test`, users should be able to use [Microsoft Testing Platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-platform-intro?tabs=dotnetcli#microsofttestingplatform-pillars) to run their tests for the sake of improving their experience. They should have the option to opt-in/out this new experience.
```

# RFC 011 - Run dotnet test with Microsoft.Testing.Platform

- [x] Approved in principle
- [x] Under discussion
- [ ] Implementation
- [ ] Shipped

## Current State

Currently, when we run `dotnet test` in CLI, we use vstest as a test runner/driver to run tests in test projects.

## Motivation

> With `dotnet test`, users should be able to use [Microsoft testing platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-platform-intro?tabs=dotnetcli#microsofttestingplatform-pillars) to run their tests for the sake of improving their experience. They should have the option to opt-in/out this new experience.

Reviewer 2: let's explain why we don't want to 
* auto-infer
* do mixed mode

## Note

We want to design in a way we won't break users and it should be backwards compatible.

### Proposed solution

> Make this option configurable in global.json.

Reviewer 2: explain why `global.json`

Here are some global.json samples:

1.

```json
{
"testSdk" :
  {
    "useTestingPlatform": true
  }
}
```

What if we want to support another test runner?

We simply can't, with this approach we either use the testing platform, or fallback to vstest if this property was set to false.

2.

```json
{
"testSdk" :
  {
    "testRunner": "vstest/testingplatform"
  }
}
```

What if we decide to extract the testing platform as an external tool?

We still could support more options.

But if, for some reason, the latest version was broken, we will break as well.

3.

```json
{
"testSdk" :
  {

>     "testRunner": "vstest/testingplatform/...",

Reviewer 3: or just "tool"?

# RFC 011 - Run dotnet test with Microsoft.Testing.Platform

- [x] Approved in principle
- [x] Under discussion
- [ ] Implementation
- [ ] Shipped

## Current State

Currently, when we run `dotnet test` in CLI, we use vstest as a test runner/driver to run tests in test projects.

## Motivation

With `dotnet test`, users should be able to use [Microsoft testing platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-platform-intro?tabs=dotnetcli#microsofttestingplatform-pillars) to run their tests for the sake of improving their experience. They should have the option to opt-in/out this new experience.

The reason for opting-in/out this experience is 

> 1. if we were to auto-infer if test projects were using vstest or the testing platform is we will end up with many vulnerabilities, thus making it hard to handle this correctly.

Reviewer 3: this sentence is complicated, and hard to parse. I am not even sure if I am following the spirit of it below:

```suggestion
1. autodetecting if test projects are using vstest or the testing platform is complex, and we would end up with many false positives, making it hard to deliver a working and consistent experience.
```

2. Mixed mode (i.e. having projects using vstest and testing platform in the same solution) will never work as the two platforms have different command line options and different features, thus the mapping will not work as expected.

## Note

> We want to design in a way we won't break users and it should be backwards compatible.

Reviewer 3: nit: There is no previous solution, so there is nothing to stay backwards compatible with. You probably meant that the feature should be designed in a way that is easy to evolve when new requirements arise, without breaking backwards compatibility.

In other words feature that is future proof, and easy to keep backwards compatible.

### Proposed solution

Make this option configurable in global.json.

Here are some global.json samples:

1.

```json
{

> "testSdk" :

Reviewer 3: is the sdk in the name to make it similar with other entries?
